---
layout: post
title:  "We Want You to Learn TurtleBot in Simulation!"
date:   2015-02-03 10:00:01
answerrostag: "simulation_introduction"
track: [simulation]
---

A robotics simulator is used to create embedded applications for a robot
without depending physically on the actual machine. The good part is that most
applications used in simulation can be transferred to physical robots without
major changes.

## Advantages of Using Simulation

Simulation can be useful whether or not you have a physical robot.

If you do not have a robot, you can start the work without buying, waiting for
the delivery, and making the robot. It is free! You should install the special
software and go throw this tutorial. You can start writing the working code and
see the results in a short time!

If you have a real robot you can save your time and money using simulation:

1. Cost

   There would be no risk damaging your hardware if you want to test some new
   programs. No hardware consumption, no maintenance.
2. Time

   You do not have to wait the battery recharge. You can run simulations in
   parallel or you can run different types of robots in one model. You do not
   have to spend your time on hardware repairing.
3. Experiments

   You can choose any environment, any robot and any sensor. In real life it is
   difficult to repeat the exact circumstances again so you only get one chance
   to collect the results and you cannot test different ideas under the exact
   circumstances. You can test the same system again and again with different
   inputs using simulation software.

Unfortunately, despite all advantages, even the best software cannot simulate
the real world perfectly.

## Start Using TurtleBot in Gazebo Simulator!

We use [Gazebo](http://gazebosim.org/) simulation platform in this tutorial. Gazebo
supports ROS and is maintained by [Open Robotics](https://www.openrobotics.org/).
Gazebo is an open source software platform for which anyone can develop a
plug-in with model components. Gazebo can simulate complex systems. For
instance, several robots with objects in their environments. It is used
especially in developing robots used in interaction, to lift or grab objects,
to push, or for any other activity which requires recognition and localization
in space.
