---
layout: post
title:  "Running the Final Script"
date:   2015-02-01 13:46:25
answerrostag: "run_script"
---

## You're Ready to Deliver Coffee

{% include youtube.html youtubeid="ni49uYq4cF4" youtubetitle="Final Demo" %}

On TurtleBot, open a terminal and run:

{% highlight sh %}
roslaunch turtlebot_bringup minimal.launch
roslaunch turtlebot_navigation amcl_demo.launch map_file:=/tmp/my_map.yaml
{% endhighlight %}

***TIP:** [How do I create a map?]({{ site.url }}{% post_url 2015-02-01-11 %})*

On the workstation, open a terminal and run:

{% highlight sh %}
roslaunch kobuki_auto_docking TurtleBot.launch
roslaunch turtlebot_rviz_launchers view_navigation.launch --screen
{% endhighlight %}

***TIP:** `coffebot.launch` was created in a [previous tutorial]({{ site.url }}{% post_url 2015-02-01-23 %}).*

## Set TurtleBot’s Initial Pose

RViz should open showing your map. TurtleBot isn’t reliably capable of estimating its pose on startup (though it can estimate it after you initialize its pose).

#### Select “2D Pose Estimate”

Click and hold on the location where the TurtleBot is on the map.  An arrow will appear while you are holding. Use this to estimate its orientation.

## Run the final script on your workstation

By now you’ve [cloned the repository]({{ site.url }}{% post_url 2015-02-01-10 %}) and [updated **coffee_bot.py** settings]({{ site.url }}{% post_url 2015-02-01-22 %}).

{% highlight sh %}
cd ~/helloworld
python coffee_bot.py
{% endhighlight %}

## Initial Results

After TurtleBot checks five times if anyone needs coffee, it will return to the docking station to charge while waiting for another request.

***NOTE:** Once it starts the docking procedure, TurtleBot will complete it prior to checking for coffee again.*

{% include youtube.html youtubeid="yS-06NDjgII" youtubetitle="coffee_bot.py" %}

## Open the Web App

You’ve already installed [the web app]({{ site.url }}{% post_url 2015-02-01-24 %}) and/or [browser extension]({{ site.url }}{% post_url 2015-02-01-21 %}) and specified valid X and Y coordinates. Go ahead and open one of them. Press “order”. After a couple of seconds, TurtleBot should head towards the coordinates you specified in the app/extension!

{% include youtube.html youtubeid="yIY3ZzgvVEE" youtubetitle="CoffeeBot Results" %}

After TurtleBot arrives it will wait until the customer presses B0. Since there isn’t a way ([yet!]({{ site.url }}{% post_url 2015-02-01-27 %})) for TurtleBot to know when the customer is finished brewing coffee, B0 is a way for the customer to say “I’m finished, you can go elsewhere”.

After B0 is pressed, TurtleBot will check if there are other pending coffee requests. If no additional requests exist, it will return to the docking station.

## Troubleshooting

To view a dump of the last 100 coffee requests go to:

{% highlight sh %}
http://[your_public_dns]/turtlebot-server/coffee_queue.php?printqueue
{% endhighlight %}

***TIP:** A “status” value of 0 is pending, 1 is success and 2 is failed.*

If you specified an invalid X and Y coordinate (i.e. a pose that TurtleBot could never reach), you can manually remove it by finding its ID in the `printqueue` (above) and then passing that value to the update call:

{% highlight sh %}
http://[your_public_dns]/turtlebot-server/coffee_queue.php?update&id=[ID_OF_INVALID_REQUEST]&status=failed
{% endhighlight %}

***TIP:** If you load a new map file you’ll very likely need to update everyone’s coordinates.*
